Hello and welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
And finally we're on to the fun stuff we're onto deep learning.
All right so let's have a look.
Bruce we spoke about killer earning and what it's all about.
And we learned about Agent environment and how the agent will look at the state.
Or she is in take an action get a reward.
Enter into a new state and based on that feedback loop they will continue taking actions and they will
learn from that.
Understand what are the best actions to take.
And so we looked at this basic example of a maze.
We understood that as Asian explores environment understands what the values of the states are.
Then we moved on from dealing with the values of the states to dealing with the values of the actions
with the values and then A-Basin that we understood how plans in a non sarcastic environments work and
how policies work in stochastic environments and this is an example of a policy.
So that's a quick recap of everything we discussed in the basic learning.
And now let's have a look at how this can be taken to the next level through deep learning through adding
deep learning.
OK.
So this is our environment and what we're going to do now is we're going to add instead of just doing
basic calculations in this matrix that we have which is pretty simple.
What we're going to do is we're going to add two axes which adds an x and y axis or we'll call them
x1 and x2.
Just to make things even more general.
And here we've got the real number the row the columns 1 2 three 4 he'll rule number the rows 1 to 3.
And so now every single state can be described by a pair of two values x1 and x2 so any one of these
squares in which the agent can possibly be in can be described by x1 x2.
So for instance right now he's in the square with X1 equal to 1 and x 2 equal to 2.
And therefore that's not some way we can escape in your square meaning we can describe in your state.
Then of course this is a very simplified version of an environment of describing States.
But nevertheless it works in this case.
And that means that now we can feed this these states into a neural network.
And by the way here I would just like to mention that at the end of the course of good annexes we've
got an x number one and antics and two in order to proceed successfully with this section.
Highly advisable that you check out unaccessible one which is on artificial neural network so you understand
how they work so that we can we don't have to delve into that here and we can just use the benefits
of the knowledge of how artificial neural networks work and so we feed this information on the state
into a neural network and then it will process this information the X1 and x2 depending on the structure
of the neural network it might have multiple hidden layers and so on.
So that's something that you'll figure out in the practical tutorials but at the end we will structure
in such a way that it spits out for values and these four values are actually going to be our Q value.
So the values which dictate which action we need to take and the don't in this tutorial will see exactly
how these key values are used to decide which action is taken.
But the main point here is that we no longer look at just this maze from a learning perspective.
We're now taking the states of the maze and we're feeding them into a deep neural network in order to
get these cubicles and.
And at the end of the day we're still going to come up with an action we're still going to understand
what action we need to take and we'll discuss all this in more detail but the question right now is
why why are we doing all of this why we called it.
Why are making things so much more complicated when that initial approach of learning was working already
well.
The reason for that is the to learning was working in this very simplistic environment and we're continuing
to deal for now with this very simplistic environment in order to better understand the concepts.
But at the same time that simple Kial learning will no longer work in more complex environments and
we're talking about for instance the self-driving cars which will be creating or playing Doom when the
artificial intelligence is playing Doom or other Atari games like breakout or even self-driving cars
and more advanced reinforcement learning things such as like robots walking around and performing actions
in all those cases basically learning is insufficient is not strong is not powerful enough to be able
to master those challenges.
And just like we've seen in the deep learning course if you've been in our discipline or if you've done
the annex sections on x number one and X-2 you will where you know that deep learning is by far superior
to any type of machine learning let alone a simple cool learning.
And that's why we're leveraging the power of deep learning here so we're feeding in the information
about the environment as a vector of values.
In this case just to use into a deep neural network and then we're using that to perform the actions
that we want to to decide which actions are agents going to take.
So that's kind of like a high level overview of why we're doing this.
And now let's have a look at in a bit more detail what happens to the concept of cool learning when
we transfer when we make the transformation from or transition from simple learning into deep Killary.
So as you saw in the previous intuition tutorials we had a slide like this which is the foundation of
temporal difference learning.
This is the formula for temporal difference and basically So let's go through.
So basically we had an agent who was in this state over here which is indicated the blue arrow.
And we were understanding how temporal difference works for this value of for instance going up.
And so what we saw here was before this is in the simple Killary not the deep learning is in the simple
killer.
What we saw was before the agent had a subsequent hue value that he had learned about this action of
going up.
And so then he decided to take ception to go up.
And right after he takes his action he gets a reward for taking this action in this state.
And that is the reward plus now he can evaluate the value of the current state he's in which is the
maximum of all of the new q values of all of the cube of the new actions he can take a prime in the
new state as print and read multiplied by the DK factor of gamma.
So that is essentially the cue the new cube value or kind of like the the empirical cube value that
he has just received for taking that action.
And ideally these two two should be the same.
So the actually the Q value that he had in his memory about this action in this state should equate
to the actual reward Plus the gamma times the value of the state that he ended up in.
And therefore that's how we calculate the temporal difference we take what you are after minus what
he got what he had in mind what he was expecting.
You'd subtract one from the other.
That's a temporal difference.
And then you use your learning rate Alpha to adjust your q value your your new q value by the temporal
difference but with a coefficient of Alpha.
So that is the essence of the simple learning.
Now let's have a look at how it changes in deep Killary and so we still going to work with the slide
but we're going to just see exactly what's happening.
So in a deep learning the neural network will predict for Valis as we saw in the previous and as we'll
see.
Donna Citronelle the neural network will predict for values or it might predict more values of more
possible actions in a given state.
But in this case we know that there's only four actions upright left to done.
And so the neural network will predict four of these values so there will be no end in a deep learning
situation is important is that there is no before or after.
And this is how we'll we'll get to know this a bit better.
So the neural network will predict four of these values and it will compare not to what will happen
after but the neural network will compare to this exact value but it was the value which was calculated
in the previous step.
So in the previous time when the agent was in this exact square.
So let's say I don't know some time ago the agent was again was in this exact square as well and it's
calculated this value previously.
So in the previous time a long time ago the agent calculated this value then the agents stored this
value for the future and now the future has come.
So now he's in the square again and now he's got these cube values which is predicted and one of them
is for the four going up.
So now what he's going to do is going to compare the predicted value of Q to this value which he had
recorded from the previous step and will understand exactly why this is important right now so just
important understand here.
There's no before an officer in this specific square this specific time.
We're taking the Q value that he's predicted using the neural network this time and we comparing it
to this value which he had from the previous time from the previous time he was in this square assessing
all of the situation and you know like the previous time he actually performed this action.
So there we go.
Now let's have a look at how this all works out in the neural network and why.
Why is it like I know it sounds a bit complicated right now but we'll break it down into simple terms
just in a second.
So this on your own network we're feeding in the states of the environment into the neural network is
going through the hidden layers that it's coming out with these outputs Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4.
In that specific state these are the cube values that the neural network is predicting for possible
actions.
Those are the cumulous.
So then we're appearing to target and these targets exist exactly so if we go back here this is the
target so this is the value that was predicted.
And then but also we know that we have a target from the last time we were in the square.
We have a target for this same action which is up for instance.
So here we've got a target and we're going to compare we're comparing Q1 versus that target we're comparing
Q2 versus that target the target that we had from previously Q3 versus a target Q4 versus the target.
And so this is the part where the neural network or the agent is now learning through deep learning
how to better go through.
And the key point here is that we're still applying cool learning but the concepts answer is simple
you learn you learn through temporal differences which are pretty straightforward which we've already
discussed and we know quite well why not.
But at the same time in deep learning how do neural networks learn neural networks learn through our
adjusting the weights.
So we have to adapt the concepts of reinforcement the concepts of simple kill learning to the way neural
networks actually work.
And that is through updating their weights.
And so this is what we're trying to figure out here how do we adapt that concept of temporal difference
to your own network so that we can leverage the full power of neural networks.
So far we've gotten this so we enter our environment state here as a vector goes through a neural network
we get predictions of key values and then from the previous time the agent was in that state.
We have these new target to target one two three and four for each of these respective actions.
And so now we're up to.
OK let's compare each one with each one.
And from here it's it becomes pretty straightforward if you're up to speed with neural networks.
Once again that's on a Anax.
Number one we're going to calculate a loss which is here and we're going to be q target this one minus
Q minus this one.
We're going to square that so the square difference of the each one of these and we're going to sum
them.
So we take the sum of the squared differences of these values and their targets and we're going to send
them up and that's going to be a loss.
And so ideally just as we had into in the temporal difference learning so if we go back for a second
remember we said Ideally we want this to be equal to this so we want the temporal difference to be zero
so that's that means basically the agent is predicting exactly correctly what you know the Q value is
that the agent is predicting are exactly or that he has and memory are exactly descriptive of the environment
and therefore the agent can never get the environed pretty well right.
There's no surprises there's no there's no s.a as long as a temporal difference is a pilot highly positive
or highly negative.
Then we've got some surprises.
But if the general differences zero then he knows environment so well that he can predict what's going
on and he can and therefore his policy is going to be very good and he's going to be able to navigate.
So here.
Same thing so we want this law to be as close to zero I suppose as smallest possible.
And that's why now we're going to this is the part where we are going to leverage the real true power
of neural network so we're going to take this loss and we're going to use back propagation or stick
as the gradient descent to take this loss and pass it through the network posit back or back propagated
through a network and through to cast a great and decent a date the weights.
All of these synopses in the network so that next time we go through this network the way it's already
a bit better descriptive of the environment and that's exactly what we're.
So here you have if you go back this is calculated losses Kalka and guess prove propagator for the network
the weights are updated.
Then the next time we get here this happens again and again here this happens again and so on and so
and it keeps happening and that's how this agent learns or basically now the neural network which is
the brain of the agent is learning is becoming more and more descriptive of the environment and therefore
the agent is able to navigate the environment.
When we say descriptive environment basically means that when we put in the states of the environment
that this agent is in we are more likely to get closer and closer to the actual cue values and that
happens because the cube values that we want to find the right action and that happens because these
new targets are actually empirically derived so he every day how does he find these cute targets.
That's actually there this so he actually observes.
OK so once I do take this step what's the reward I get.
And then what's the values of this state.
So same thing as we saw previously in Q learning and the simple learning intuition.
So he learns this through trial and error and then he constructs his network or that's the way it is
in such a way that the predicted values are close and close.
Consummating that target.
Q values so very similar to the concept we discussed here in the simple temporal difference learning
of the simple skill learning algorithm.
So there you go.
That's that's how the agent learns.
So we're up to here.
And that's the learning part.